>> Brian Holt: We are gonna be talking
about styled-components which is kind of
a fun thing.
So let's kind of go off on a little
bit of a tangent, tell a story.
[LAUGH].
So writing CSS can be all the way
from really great to really un-fun.
Depending on what kind of CSS you're
writing and what you need to do with it.
We've kind of come up with all
these different tools like SASS and
LESS and post CSS that have kind of
been helpers to us to kind of get
this rather undecorated
rule decorated language.
To be a little more problematic,
allows us to
do all these different kind
of cool features with them.
Well, some smart people came along and
said, well it would be really nice
if we could use JavaScript like
a fully turning complete language.
Not that actually CSS is technically
turning complete, let's not go there.
But we can use JavaScript, and
then we could manipulate all these
styles programmatically, right?
And then rather than having to do things
like add classes and subtract classes,
we could actually just be
directly manipulating the style.
All these different things, right?
It's opening the door for a lot of new and
interesting paradigms and
things that we're just barely exploring.
So we ended up with things like Radium,
was one of the first
big ones that came out.
Then Aphrodite was another big CSS and
JS library that came out.
And sometime afterwards we landed on
this one called styled-components,
which I think it's really fun to use,
for sure.
And then there's two that have kind of
come out that have also kind of captured
the consciousness which are glamour and
glamorous which are both amazing.
In fact I know the author of
all three of those, right?
One of them giving from a masters,
Kempsey Dodds.
He was instrumental and glamorous.
In fact, I think he literally
wrote the first version of it, so
all really, really cool awesome ideas.
And I'm a fan.
However it's become quite controversial.
The reason being is that we're
deviating from the way that the browser
has previously worked, right?
Previously, you put your link tag that had
a separate style sheet that was downloaded
and then, all these things could be kind
of eventually running parallel, right.
We're very optimized for that path,
because the web has been doing that for
20 years.
I don't know how long has CSS been around?
Probably longer than that.
So yeah, we ended up with this CSS and
JS thing,
which definitely has its drawbacks right?
Its drawbacks, for example,
with styled-components is that
you have these long CSS strings which
I'll show you here momentarily.
They get parsed twice, right.
They get parsed in JavaScript.
They output the style tag which then gets
powered by the CSS parts, all right?
They're paying double parts cost
which is not trivial, right?
For sure, it's definitely not trivial.
We have deviated from the optimized path.
So these are all the things to keep in
mind when selecting how you wanna do CSS.
However, what I'm really bullish on,
why I think these are paths
that are worth exploring.
>> Brian Holt: Is the idea
of tying your styling to
your components is very
very promising to me.
My favorite thing in the entire
world is deleting code, literally.
I just adore deleting code.
Cuz when you're deleting code that
means things are moving forward.
Now you went from having this many things
to think about to having this many things
to think about.
And that's just a huge win in my book.
We're getting pretty good
at deleting JavaScript, and
we're being able to detect, like,
this file's never included.
You might consider deleting this, right?
There are ways to statically analyze
through JavaScript that's possible.
However, how often fo you delete CSS?
I mean most people look at me like yeah,
pretty much never right because it is
really difficult to untangle that,
like this is you somewhere but
this is not you somewhere, right?
And you have like this crazy style sheets
that just going to be huge, right?
I remember recently, LinkedIn's CSS,
I think was pushing megabytes, right?
Which is crazy.
But it's totally understandable
how you get there, right?
Because once you write a rule,
it's really difficult to know
when you can pull it out again.
We're getting some new tools from Chrome
dev tools which are kind of letting us
see like hey, you have this CSS rule and
I never saw it called.
What's still difficult about this is that
it might be called in another part of
the website, right?
Super difficult to tell where
things are coming from.
All this trade to say is that if you are
doing something like styled-components,
what styles component is it's going
to bring that styling inside of
the component.
So if you never include the component,
you never include the CSS, right?
So if you delete the component,
you delete the CSS.
Amazing.
I'm so excited about this for that reason.
And this is not the only way to
achieve this for sure, right.
There's things like CSS modules, so
I talk a little bit about them in V2
if you're interested in that, but
you could do something like import,
>> Brian Holt: Or
let's just assume it's in the same
directory, ./ShowCard.css.
Right, we don't have this set up right
now, you'd have to do some more stuff
with Webpack to get this to work, but
what would be really cool about this
is that anywhere you included this file,
you would also pull along the CSS with it.
And it's also cool because I know
as soon as I delete ShowCard.jsx,
I know I can also delete ShowCard.css.
So CSS modules definitely one path
forward and I would say, maybe for
production use, right now,
at this very moment, a better way to go.
That's a Brian Holt opinion, so
take that with all the grains of salt.
But I wanna show you how
to do styledhcomponents.
We're not gonna do it all day because
we'd spend a lot of time writing CSS but
we're gonna do this much of it, okay.
So, I want you to go up here and say,
import styled from 'styled-components'.
>> Brian Holt: And we're gonna create
a couple kind of elements here.
The first we're gonna do
is called Wrapper = styled.
>> Brian Holt: So
this syntax is new for a lot of people.
>> Brian Holt: So what this is right here,
I have styled and then I have a back tick,
right, and
then I have another back tick back here.
This is called a tagged template literal.
It is valid JavaScript, this is not JSX,
this is not anything but
pure JavaScript right here.
In here I can start writing some CSS,
just like you normally would.
>> Brian Holt: Border: 2px solid.
>> Brian Holt: And we'll do border-radius.
>> Brian Holt: 4 pixels.
Margin-bottom: 25px.
Padding-right: 10px.
Overflow: hidden.
>> Brian Holt: So
you might be asking what is this, right?
Tags template literals are still
not something widely in use.
They came with EXS, right?
So this is already valid
standard JavaScript.
A bunch of browsers even still support it.
What is happening here is we have
this template literal, right?
We've seen these before, these are
>> Brian Holt: What we were
just using before.
So if I said const color =,
I could totally
replace this with
>> Brian Holt: Color, right?
So that would totally work here.
Cuz it's just a normal template literal
>> Brian Holt: I'm not gonna do
that right now but
that's what that would look like.
But this style right here is a tag on this
temple literal which means it's going to
be run through a function that's
getting called here, right?
Or from styled-components, so it's
gonna be fed into styled-components and
what this returns is a react components,
right?
Sorry, and it's style.div.
That's important.
[LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: So what this style.div is
going to return to you is a div
that has been styled like this.
>> Brian Holt: Which is pretty cool.
So now I have this wrapper component,
so I'm gonna replace
this right here with wrapper,
and down here at the bottom.
>> Brian Holt: So
instead of having that encapsulating div,
now I have this styled-component that
I've pulled in from styled-components.
Cuz I guess it probably bears mentioning
if what's actually happening,
like where the style's coming from?
A lot of people just assume
it's in-line style, it is not.
Cuz that's less efficient, but
it's actually going to do is it's
going to create a style tag
somewhere on the page and
then it's going to output this
stuff into that style tag and
then it's going to get this div right here
a class that matches that matches that.
Make sense?
And we can look at how that works.
So we're gonna do one more cuz we
need some style around our image too.
So we're gonna say.
>> Speaker 2: Quick question.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: So
we replaced the div showcard.
What is I wanted to keep that
class name within the wrapper tag.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: And
then I would just add it.
Yep.
>> Brian Holt: I think later
we actually have to do that.
I don't remember why, but yeah.
For now we'll leave it
off cuz I forgot why.
>> Speaker 2: So
is it babble that's interpreting that and
putting it into the CSS style tag.
How is it?
>> Brian Holt: It's magic.
[LAUGH] No,
it's the styles components library.
It has nothing to do with babble.
I don't know what actual mechanism
it's outputting into the dom.
I haven't looked that closely at it.
But it's taking that and outputting it
to a style tag somewhere on your page.
The nice thing slash gross thing
about CSS is it's universal, right?
If you put a style tag anywhere
on a page it's all global, so
as long as it's on there
somewhere it will work.
>> Speaker 2: So could you forsee almost
like a webpack tool in the future that
would go through and
find all the embeded styles and.
>> Brian Holt: It's already happening.
Styled-components doesn't have one.
It's on their roadmap.
I actually met with the creator.
Like week and a half ago in Austria.
And yeah, they just released
Style Components 2 last week,
which is what we're using today.
And I think for V3 or something like that
they're actually gonna do something where
they can actually separate it out to a
separate style sheet which you can include
and kind of get into that
more optimized cow path.
I believe Glamorous already does it.
Glamorous or Glammer and or
both will allow you to extract that CSS,
make a separate file and
include it, which is pretty cool.
>> Speaker 2: So
that replaces SASS or LESS than.
>> Brian Holt: Yep, totally.
What's cool about this too it
automatically gets run through an auto
pre-fixer.
>> Brian Holt: Which is really nice, so
you can just do like display flex and
then forget about it.
>> Brian Holt: So
we're gonna do one more for
our image tag which is
gonna be styles.img.
As you may have guessed, style.tag is how
you create that particular type of tag,
and they have everything that's valid CSS,
sorry, valid HTML.
Width 46%, float: left, and
margin-right, 10px.
If there are things that you
like in SAS like lighten and
darken and some of those things,
there's a library called
Polish which is a partner that
goes with styled-components.
That will do things like lighten and
darken and
some of those other
SASS specific features.
So now we have image here.
So I'm just gonna change this image
right here from img to image.
Everything else can stay exactly the same.
So now if we save that.
We come back here.
>> Brian Holt: This looks
like it's mostly working.
Well, this doesn't look as
nice as it was supposed to.
>> Brian Holt: That's nice,
that's what I was going for.
[LAUGH] Well at the next break
call figure out why those
CSS went wrong but
this should be look a little bit nicer.
>> Speaker 3: So is there supposed to be
an extra directory under the search one?
>> Brian Holt: I think I messed that
up last time I gave this as well.
Yeah, there needs to be a div here.
>> Brian Holt: Yep, hey,
it looks all nice now.
[LAUGH] So
you just need an extra div down here.
>> Brian Holt: Thanks, friend.